imagine being able to procedurally model
rig and animate things as well as have
full procedural control over the whole
thing want to change the model that's
good want to change the animation or
individual parameters no problem well
this does actually exist already and
it's called geometry notes subscribe
join Discord let's go geometry notes is
a note setup which lets you procedurally
model and animate your assets while
allowing for exposed parameters so you
can change anything on the spot
procedural meaning you can change
anything you want on the Fly non-
destructively and the whole thing is
going to be respond concept as a very
very simple example I can add a cube as
my geometry input give it enough
subdivisions and put instances on points
I'll explain how all of this works later
don't worry I can use anything I want
for these instances so I can use the
same Cube or even better a custom Cube
model which already has bevels cuz
bevels look nice for the scale I'll use
a noise texture so I can randomize it
clamp it down with a color ramp node and
set it to 4D so I can animate with a
single slider I can now do this geun
notes set up some custom controls so
it's easier to resize and make it denser
give the W value a #f frame driver so
it's automatic and now I have this
abstract thing I can expose these
parameters so they're easily accessible
and animatable without the need of the
geometry noes editor window thing and
the best part about this is I can change
any of these settings and the whole
thing is going to adapt without me
having to mess with any of the animation
data imagine making all this by hand
that'd be awful imagine changing things
is just a nightmare this is so much
better that is where the real power
geometry nodes comes into play not going
to lie if you look at some of the best
Geometry notes Creations out there I'm
definitely not up there on the list but
I'm good at teaching things and you guys
voted for this so I'll try my best to
explain how the logic works so you can
get the gist of what the workflow is
like but only if you
subscribe I'm not asking again to start
working with geometry notes select any
mesh curve or text object in the scene
open the geometry nodes window and click
new this will create a new geometry
nodes graph as well as add a new Geon
node modifier onto your object you can
also change them from the drop downs
just like with materials those two are
the same thing you get two nodes which
are your input geometry which is your
original mesh and the output geometry
which is the end result you don't need
to start with your original geometry
though you can swap this out for
anything including other objects in the
scene so yes you could put Geon noes on
a monkey and have it start as a cube
don't get confused by that it's all
about the input where it starts from
anyway here you can add nodes that will
affect your geometry before it reaches
the output like extruding faes
instancing data extraction and so much
more the best part is you can change any
of these values anytime you want and
it's still going to work because
underneath this procedural not tree you
still have the original geometry so it's
just going to redo all the steps from
the tree and update your end results so
it's all procedural and
undestructible comes from the complexity
of being able to stack them on top of
each other and perform complex
operations so instead of giving you a
lecture on every individual node we will
build a procedural sheet music generator
with useful animatable parameters and
I'm hoping to teach you the logic behind
the geometry noes workflow along the way
it might get a little complicated as the
final graph looks like this but I'll be
explaining every step of the way so
hopefully it's going to be
understandable let's
begin let's take a look at the Sheep
music it's got five lines it's covered
in notes and the lines Trim in and out
as they wish I think the best starting
point would be a bezier curve because
all the lines could follow the curve we
could easily extrude it and adjust it
and shape it any way we want so let's
add a bezier curve I'll move its control
points further apart so have more space
and open the geometry noes editor where
we'll add a new geometry notes tree our
input here is the original curve and if
you come to think of it the lines are
basically just a duplicate of the same
curve stacked on top of each other and
thick so let's do that I'll add a
transformed geometry note this lets me
move rotate or scale any geometry that I
put into it so I'll move it up by
something like 02 or something then I'll
add a joint geometry node which does
what you expect and plug both of them in
so the joint geometry is now showing us
the original curve as well as the curve
that's been moved up a little bit so
they're both being shown cuz they're
both in the input makes sense so I'll
add another transform geometry noes set
it to something like 04 and join that up
in the joint geometry as well and for
the last two lines I'll go into the
negative so the whole thing is centered
so Min -2 and -.4 now I have five lines
and they all follow the original bzier
curve but what if I want to change the
line spacing what do I do then what now
am I going to go in every single time
and try to offset it manually doing the
math so the offset is relatively the
same between all of them and stuff like
of course not that's stupid why would
you do it like that we have the power of
geometry notes okay don't forget that
let's make it fancy and simple to use
with a single slider I'm going to add a
value note and set it to 0 2 this is
going to be our default one and we'll
add some math to get the values of all
the other lines and then by changing one
the math will automatically take care of
everything else but if I connect that
into the transform socket directly it's
going to offset it by 0.2 on the X Y and
Z so the L is going to fly away but I
only want it to move on the z-axis so we
need to combine the X Y and Z inputs and
to do that I'll add a combine XYZ node
this node takes three different values
for the X Y and Z and then just gives us
a single Vector output which we can put
in the transform if I plug this value
into the zv value and leave the X and Y
at zero and then plug that into the
transform socket the Line is now we
needs to be and I can control it with
this value thing and because we're using
the combine XYZ everywhere I'm just
going to duplicate this three other
times so I have all of them here since
we want a single slider to control all
of this we need to use the same value
for four other sockets so we'll add math
to get the other values and this one
will control all of them and they'll
adjust automatically because of all the
math in between them so the top line is
always going to be twice as much as this
one so let's just add a math note set it
to multiply and multiply by two so no
matter how much this value is the top
one is going to be twice as much so it's
always going to be the same for the
lower line I'll multiply by negative 1
so it just flips it down and for the
lowest line I'll multiply by -2 so it's
flipped around and twice as strong so
when I slide this value the lines are
spacing apart because the math is
mathing go figure congrats you made your
first geometry notes control good job
I'm proud of you however we can go
further than this our not tree now looks
like this just a refresher I've
organized a little bit so it's not
confusing but like I said we can make
this value even more useful by exposing
it so it's accessible through the
modifier stack you can expose parameters
by simply dragging them backwards into
this open socket of the input geometry
node I'll disconnect this top y value
and plug it into the group input and now
it's created a new value if you select
the group input node press n to see the
sidebar and go into the group panel you
can now see the group sockets I'll
rename this y by double clicking it and
call it line spacing I'll set the
minimum to zero so we can't go into the
negatives and set the maximum to 10 cuz
I don't think I'll ever need anything
above 10 that's pretty crazy and I'll
set this value back to the original 2
and plug it back into the Y I'll also
replace all the other value values with
the line spacing and just delete the
value note cuz we don't need it anymore
we have this value now and so everything
is driven by this value now and because
it's plugged into the group input it's
now visible in the modifier stack so you
can change it from there anytime you
want in the group socket you also have
extra settings like changing the type
for example you can make it a vector
integer even a custom object if that's
what your rig requires you can give it a
description an attribute change how it's
displayed even give it a default value
or hide it and so on but we don't need
any of that right now we just have an
exposed value that let's just change the
spacing of the lines now let's make them
thick which isn't actually that simple
because just adding a set curve radius
isn't actually going to make them
thicker it just sets its radius property
if you actually want to make them
thicker they need a profile curve it
works the same way as any normal bezier
curve where you have the main curve and
a curve which is just for the profile so
thinking about that we don't actually
need five parallel curves we need a
single curve and a profile curve which
is just five circles that on top of each
other so we have one main curve but the
profile is five different curves so
those would get pulled along the curve
and we technically get five lines so
instead of the group input AKA my main
bezier curve being fed into the
transform nodes I'm actually going to
replace that with a curve Circle node
set its resolution as low as you can and
set the radius to zero I know we want
circles not dots but we'll be converting
this from a curve to a mesh and back
several times if you do raise the radius
you should see five little triangles but
put them back to zero just remember that
the tri angles are there now I'll add a
curve to mesh tool which will change
curve information into mesh information
so every curve segment is now a vertex
and these are now edges the reason I did
that is because it gives me a profile
curve input so I'll plug my original
curve into the curve socket and my
infinitely small triangles into the
profile socket this also changes our
transformation axis from Z to Y due to
the circle's orientation so change these
again if you raise the radius here
you'll see five triangular tubes going
down but put it back to zero I just want
you to know they're there because it's
hard to see now at any point that
there's a triangle you technically have
three vertices in there because
triangles are made of three vertices and
their scale infinitely small so they're
three points there positioned in the
same place that could cause issues for
us so I'll add a merge by distance node
and this node will look for a threshold
of range and if it finds multiple
vertices in the same spot it's just
going to collapse them together into one
because all these triangles are on top
of each other they're automatically just
going to collapse into a single vertex
for some reason the curve is just now
visible in the viewport I don't know why
that was not the case before but at
least now we see what we're doing and
because we use the circles as a profile
curve instead of duplicating the main
curve five times this setup should now
also work with the Curve tilt so it's
going to respect your curve no matter
what but if you remember we're trying to
trim this curve from both sides and we
can't reasonably do that with a mesh
whatsoever so we actually have to
convert this back into a curve because
curves have a direction and can be
trimmed from start to end while meshes
have no such controls so back into the
curve we go add a mesh to curve node and
now every single vertex is now a point
on the curve and all the edges are now
segments of the curve now we have the
lines they respect the shapes now the
next step is make them trim trimmable
trimmable from both ends yeah this is
hard we have to trim the curves I'll put
this stuff in a box by selecting it and
press contrl J and give it a custom
color so it's organized I'll give it a
resample curve note to get back some
resolution this is now based on the
bezier curves actual resolution but when
I place my curve the beer handles won't
be equally apart so the curve isn't
going to be equally dense everywhere I
want that to be the case so I'll change
this count to length which will always
make sure that the points on the curve
are equally apart and they're apart by
this length amount here so the curve is
equally dense no matter what I do to it
in the viewport and that seems like a
useful value to expose this is the
resolution of the curve after all drag
this plug it into the group input call
it curve resolution and set the minimum
to 0.01 cuz if you go below that it
doesn't visually add any more resolution
but it's going to lag your project cuz
that's a lot of points so that should be
the very Max now I shall add a trim
curve note this lets me trim the start
or the end of the curve I'll leave this
setting at Factor because it works with
any scale and the trim is always going
to go from 0 to one so it's like a
percentage value and now the trimming
works we can actually give the curve
some thickness so I'll once again use a
curve to mesh note this is a reoccurring
theme I've noticed and use a brand new
Circle curve as its profile curve the
reason I'm not reusing the old one is
because I want different values here
radius will determine the thickness and
the resolution will determine the
resolution I'm going to drag both of
these values into the group input to
expose them and we can change them on
the fly if you're worried about the
Tangled mess of node spaghetti you can
always just add a new group inputs and
it's going to have all the same inputs
as before you don't have to rely on one
you can copy multiple of these not to
get stuff crossed but now the lines are
equally thick across the entire thing I
want them to kind of taper out like fade
out towards the end so what can we do
about that first of all how would we
detect this we need a value that changes
along the curve so the further down the
curve it goes the the larger that value
becomes and we could use that value to
drive the radius luckily for us there
exists such a value and we kind of
briefly saw it before it's called Factor
all curves have a factor and the factor
goes from 0 to one it's zero at the
start of the curve and it slowly
approaches one as it gets to the end of
the curve so if we can take this factor
and remap it so instead of from 0 to 1
it goes from 0 to 1 and then back to
zero and then use that value as our
radius the curves thickness is going to
go from Zer and then it's going to get
thick at one and then towards the end
it's going to go back to zero so we get
our taper effect let's do that in
between my trim curve and curve to mesh
nodes I will add a set curve radius node
cuz we need to do this before we convert
a curve into a mesh it's not going to
work on a mesh this now has an input for
the radius which can accept non-uniform
values the radius on the circle can do
that no then I will add a spline
parameter node because that also
includes our factor which we're looking
for if I plug this into the radius
directly you can clearly see it go from
zero to one and it's also going to
dynamically change if we extrude the
curve or move the points so this is very
consistent we need to remap this but
I'll do it visually because it makes
more sense it's easier to explain it to
you guys that way so I'll simply add an
RGB curves node this is easy this is the
start of the curve this is the end of
the curve and this is the value right
now with it's going from 0 to 1 but if I
grab this one and put it down to zero
they're now both zero I'll add a new
point in the middle and just bring it up
to one so the middle is now one the ends
are now zero it's actually that simple
you can tweak this you can change the
handle type so it's more smooth add more
points if you want just make it look
nice this is this is your curve now now
I'll box these to make it prettier
expose the curve start and end trims as
well so I have full control over this
from the outside you can try to play
with the settings and the tilts and all
that to see how it works but we're
actually done with the lines the last
thing we need is the notes and the
materials the problem with adding notes
is that they have to be equally spaced
properly oriented scale in and out as
the curve moves as well as fly out of
the curve as the curve disappears this
is probably the most complicated part of
the whole setup so I'll try my best to
explain all the logic so you'll see how
problem solving works with this workflow
so let's first tackle the distribution
part I'm thinking we take the original
curve then resample it so the lengths
are equal and then sample a random node
on every single point I think that's the
way to go so I'll take the original beer
curve run it through the resample curve
node set it to length and put it to
something small I can also expose this
parameter call it node spacing and I'm
just previewing this by pressing control
shift and clicking it's a node Wrangler
thing you can edit preferences add-ons
and search for no Wrangler turn it on
now now I got this this way I can focus
on what I'm working out right now and
ignore what I've done before after that
I will add an instance on points node
which will add an instance on every
single point on the curve and the
instance can be whatever you want you
won't see anything by default because
this is a curve so we'll give it an
instance the instance being your notes
now I'm not going to make the notes
procedurally cuz that sounds like a
nightmare and a lot of work and this
video is long enough as it is instead
I've pre-model some basic notes symbols
made out of basic spheres and cubes with
bevels and stuff so we'll just use those
I'll put the download for the notes in
the description so you can use it
yourself and follow along the tutorial
or you could make your own you can you
can make your own stop stealing
stuff you leech I put all of my notes in
a new collection called notes and in
Geometry notes I'll add a collection
info node which allows me to bring this
collection into my geometry notes to be
used in my setup select the notes
collection and plug it into the instance
input on our instances on points node
you'll see a big mess because it's
instancing the entire collection at once
on every single one of these points So
to avoid that we'll turn on separate
children which will turn every object in
my collection into a separate instance
rather than this whole thing being one
instance then pick instance so it will
pick a random instance from The
Collection which now means one of the
objects individually and finally reset
children so the position of those notes
don't have the world offset because
they're not on 0 in World space so they
snap onto the points where they should
be you can also turn the Z rotation
around to align it to the curve
depending in which direction you've made
your curve but we'll have to fix this
later to also include the curve tilt
because right now it doesn't do that for
now just add a join geometry notes and
combine it with the lines we've made
before so now this is the whole thing
you can also increase the scale but that
will obviously be driven by the trims
later and also so expose parameters for
more control obviously but for now let's
tackle the position first right now all
the notes are at the same Heights while
in actual sheet music the height of the
notes vary to depict the pitch of the
note I'm going to add a set position
note before the instance is on points so
we can offset the curve points before
turning them into nodes the offset Z
will move them up and down but we
obviously want this randomized so I will
add a random value node set it to Vector
so we get separate X Y and Z values and
set a minimum and maximum to the point
where all the notes cover the entire
height of the lines now we have a bit of
a problem when it comes to the curve
tilt you see we're moving these notes on
the z-axis while when you tilt the the
z-axis kind of turns you know what I
mean it has a local z-axis so in order
to get that local z-axis we need to know
the curve tilt so how much it's tilting
by as well as the curve tangent to to
see in which direction the curve is
going so we need the Tilt and the
tangent plug that into some fancy math
and we can find the direction of the Z
and then plug that into our offset we
need to use the Tilt and the tangent
before we've offset the points though so
we'll need to use the capture attribute
node what this node does is it basically
looks at a certain attribute the one you
plug in at this point in time and then
you can apply a bunch of stuff to it and
then use the same non-modified attribute
at the end of the chain so it just
stores it it extracts it and lets you
use it wherever else you want at this
point in time so add the capture
attribute note right after we resample
the curve and we want to capture the
point data so leave that on point as
well the attributes we need to capture
are the curve tilt and tangent so I'll
add the curve tilt and tangent nodes and
connect them to my capture attribute
node this gave me two new outputs on the
Node which are the curve tilt and
tangent at this point in time so after
it was resampled but before it was all
offset I've captured them now I have
them and I can use these now to rotate
the offset so it always matches the
curve tilt we'll need to do some Vector
math which can get pretty complicated
pretty fast and it's it's a whole Rabbit
Hole so I don't really have time to talk
about it in this video but I can make a
full separate video on Vector math if
you want me to let me know in the
comments if you don't let me know I'm
not really going to make it cuz I'm just
going to assume you don't need it but
for now you can just copy what I'm doing
add a vector rotate node and have your
random value be the vector input this is
the vector we're rotating to align it to
the curve now the axis should be your
captured curved tangent and the angle
should be the curv Tilt now they're
going to move with the Tilt but they
won't rotate with it so let's fix that
as well we'll add an align rotation to
Vector node plug the rotation output
into the rotation of the instances on
points node set the access to X and keep
the pivot at Auto we've oriented to the
tangent here's the before and the after
but now we have to take care of the Tilt
as well duplicate the Align rotation to
Vector node right after set the access
to Z and the pivot to Y because we just
did the Y before now because our Vector
is set to 0 01 it will always Point
towards that which is straight up so a
quick explanation of vectors very quick
a vector has three values which
correspond with the X Y and Z axis
imagine moving to these coordinates and
point towards the final point from the
start of the transformation that is the
direction of the vector our Vector is
always pointing directly up but we need
to tell it to to point towards the curve
tilt instead so we'll add a vector
rotate node before this our original
Vector is still pointing up but we'll
rotate it towards the curve tilt so I'll
add a vector node where I'll put it to 0
01 so it's pointing up and in order to
rotate it towards the curve tilt I'll
plug our store tangent into the axis and
our store tilt into the angle so now
that's what the notes will be pointing
towards and lo and behold the notes now
turn with the Tilt congratulations
ladies and gentlemen thank you thank you
thank you love you all also box this
with contrl J so it's more organized and
nicer to look at this part was a little
overwhelming because it was more
advanced and requires some background
knowledge on vectors and stuff so don't
beat yourself up if you didn't get it
this video is way too short for me to
explain how everything works for now
just copy what I did and let me know if
you want a deeper tutorial on this your
feedback is what drives this Channel and
the tutorials I make being voted in my
Discord server so feel free to join the
links in the description while you're
there subscribe I lied I will say it
again I will keep on asking because you
don't do it look at this graph I don't
like this graph come on people I don't
feel like it's efficient to get
subscribers if you yell at them so I'm
sorry have a cookie for real though it
does help me out a lot now back to the
video now because the notes scale is
also heavily dependent on the curves
factor in our trim we'll also need to
extract that do some Math logic and then
use that as the scale now we could just
add a regular Factor note again but I
want to show you what's possible so
we'll do it a different way I'll add a
store named attribute note in front of
the resample curve node and we're
storing the factor so plug the factor
into the value now give it a custom name
this could literally be anything you
want except for that don't do that
please don't do that anything but that
and you can call back to it anytime you
want even in the Shader editor even in
other parts of blender so it's not just
limited to Geometry noes you can extract
this and use it anywhere else in the
software this is also why it's so
powerful I'm just going to keep it
inside geometry nodes though so I'm just
going to call it trim then I'll add
another node in a separate segment
called named attribute set the name to
trim so this is basically our Factor
thing which we extracted we could have
added a regular spinee parameter node
and just used that Factor because it is
the same value this is the one that we
captured but this way I get to teach you
something new now let's think we have a
factor which is going from 0 to one
along the length of the curve we also
have the trims start and end which are
also going from 0 to one and they also
travel along the curve as the number
goes bigger and our note scale has to be
zero or close to zero exactly on those
trims they can be bigger on the inside
but zero on the trims and outside of
those trims what I'm thinking is we take
the distance from both the trims to the
factor and use that as a scale because
where the trim is on the factor this is
already zero because the distance is
zero which means the scale is also zero
which makes the note infinitely small
when the trim is further away the
distance is bigger which also means the
scale is going to be bigger so that that
kind of makes sense let's try I'll add a
vector math note and set it to distance
plug my trim attribute in socket 1 and
the trim start from the group input into
socket 2 if you were to plug this into
the scale of the instance on points node
the notes will be smaller at the trim
and bigger away from it I'll also add
another Vector math node set it to
subtract before that so I can control
the offset of that scale because I'm
subtracting the trim value before I'm
actually doing the distance calculation
so it's kind of offsetting where where
that is I'm also going to add a combine
XYZ node before that drag the X into the
group input and rename it the start
offset so I can control it and obviously
plug that back into all three sockets I
just did that so it's easier to control
the value with one slider if you're
feeling fancy you can shift right click
drag them to combine them into a single
reroute again this is also a node
Wrangler thing so turn it on if you
haven't already it's a great thing not
using it should be illegal and I will
personally fight you so now you can
control the offset of the scale
basically but now as you move the trim
start the nodes get bigger again as the
trim passes by because technically the
distance is now bigger except it's now
going into the negatives so I'll add a
map range note right after that this
lets me remap the value now the notes
are tiny right on the trim start but big
everywhere else so I want to invert that
so I'll map from minimum zero and
maximum 1 to minimum 1 and maximum zero
so it's exact opposite I flipped it
around the notes are now only big at the
start and small everywhere else but
because we have this note offset here we
can just move it so it looks fine
however because the notes are now very
small I'll change this minimum one into
minimum two so now they're bigger
altogether if you mess with the from Max
value you can increase the width of this
band of scaled up notes if you want you
can create a new exposed parameter and
call it expand start so you can control
the width of the start band and I I'll
redo this for trim end add a vector math
node set it to distance plug in my
Custom Trim attribute and this time the
end trim from the group input give it a
scale Vector math node the combine XYZ
make it a new exposed parameter call it
end offset connect to all three sockets
and finish everything off with a map
range nodee with the same values as
before expose the from Max input call it
expand end I found for me that it works
best if I set the expand start to 1.4
and the expand end to something like 2.4
your results might vary but you have to
do some tweaking to this after we're
done obviously just find the right
values until it looks the best now each
map range notes works for one of the
ends now we just have to combine them we
don't want to add them together because
the middle which overlaps is just going
to make the notes even bigger and the
ends will expand that's bad but if you
multiply something with a value lower
than one that value is going to get
smaller this will eliminate the
extending ends we want to keep the zero
values from both map range notes so if
it's zero here it should be zero on the
other one as well but our maximum value
notes are 1.4 and 2. four so multiplying
those together would make the notes even
bigger in the middle we can solve this
by clamping the results so anything
larger than one is just going to get
clipped down to one so I'll add a math
node set it to multiply and connect both
map range results into it then take on
this clamp value this gave us a band of
notes in the middle now you might think
that's too short but we can fix that as
well I'll add another multiply note and
clamp it so the notes don't get too big
if this value goes above one the notes
that are smaller will get bigger while
the rest will remain the the same
because of the clamp because one is Max
this way you can sort of control the
width of the note bands from both ends
at once I'll expose this value as well
call it expand both so you have control
of the start end as well as both at the
same time it it will come in handy when
you're making animations having more
controls is always better or you can
simply not do that if you don't want to
deal with that I'm showing you how it's
done okay and finally I want a control
of the overall scale of the node so I'll
add another multiply node but this time
not clamp it this value will now scale
the notes up and down and because it's
not clamped it will allow values larger
than one so you know the notes are going
to grow in the middle so this is the
overall scale control expose the value
call it note scale and set the minimum
to zero because we don't want negative
scale on the notes that was a lot of
math but I hope my explanations and
visuals kind of make it easier to
understand I'm not sure this is hard if
not I encourage you to rewatch watch it
slower pause on the places where I'm
going too fast cuz I know that I speak
very fast but these videos could be like
2 hours long I also don't want that but
now the final thing we have to do is
make the notes fly out as the sheet
music disappears we'll make them fly out
as the notes disappear and also slowly
start floating up we got this we're
almost there just just a little bit more
this is an addition to our notes
position and it's driven by the trim
start value the notes are flying out on
their local y- AIS flying up on their
local z-axis and they shouldn't move on
the x-axis currently our setup includes
two random Vector values both but we'll
have to separate them because we need
three different inputs so combine XYZ
noes for both the minimum and the
maximum just like before make sure the
zv value matches the one from before so
plug that in everything should remain
the same when plugged in we haven't done
anything different yet now to add our
floating out bits the notes will only
fly out as the curve disappears which is
our trim start value so this is a
relationship between the overall curve
Factor as well as trim starts so we'll
add both of those here they clearly have
to interact here for this to work
properly our attribute called trim and a
group input from the trim start the
Start Trim value is growing as we move
the slider so is the factor as we move
along the curve and so should our Z
value with an
offset if we look at this from the
perspective of the Z position if we
subtract the factor a value that's
Rising along the curve from the trim
start value a value that's uniformly
Rising as we progress we should get a
diagonal line which is slowly moving up
and if we clamp it so it can't go below
zero it looks like that line is is
rising from a point that's moving along
the trim start sometimes it helps to
visualize what these values are and what
they're doing and then it's easier to
make the right call so we'll add a math
node set it to subtract plug the trim
start to socket 1 and our Custom Trim
value which is the factor into socket 2
connect that into the Z input so we can
visualize it we still need to clamp it
so it doesn't go down so I'll add a map
range node and maybe rise the two max
value so notes can go overall higher
I'll now add a math node set it to add
right after my subtract and with this I
can control the offset when the notes
fly up expose this value for more
control call it Fly offset and if you
want to control the intensity you can
add a multiply node right after that
expose that value call it Fly intensity
if you want to add a slight curve as the
notes are flying out you can invert the
Custom Trim value with a map range
change from 0 to 1 to 1 to zero and add
another multiply node before the last
map range node and multiply what you got
with the inverted Factor because the
start is now one and the end is now zero
multiplying with a smaller value will
give you a smaller result so it's
naturally going to look like it's
curving up now if you remember we had
some height variation on the notes which
is no longer there because we've
overridden those values with what we
just did here what I will do is I will
add two more math notes right after our
map range notes put one to add and the
other to subtract and plug each into the
map range outputs expose the value call
it note height and use the same value in
the other math node this value will now
control the height variations of your
noes and I guess so we don't go through
the same pain again for the y- AIS just
to make it slightly different cuz no
one's going to notice that it's any
different I'll just reuse this setup by
duplicating the map range node and
plugging it directly into the Y input
it's going backwards so I'll invert the
map range node by putting a minus in
front of the two max value that's why I
duplicated the note instead of just
reusing the same one cuz the value is
different the setup is now mostly done
but I want one final piece of control
and that is that I don't always want the
same freaking note layout I want to be
able to randomize the notes they're
always always the same now the instance
on points note has this little instance
index input which can be randomized to
give you different seeds of the
instances which means random notes I'll
add a random value note and this time
set it to integer which is what that
green thing is it doesn't accept any
fractions just accepts full numbers set
the minimum and maximum to something
like a thousand connect the input into
the instance index and drag the seed
value into group input to expose it with
this you can now customize the note
layout with a click of a button finally
you need to give this a material and
doing it the normal way won't work the
way you do this is create all the
materials you want this thing to use
they don't even have to be on the same
object I just like to keep in there cuz
it's more easily accessible I'm going to
have my lines be one material my notes
be another material so I'll make two of
them once I'm done go back into geometry
notes I'm going to add a set material
note at the end of the chain with the
lines and another set material note at
the end of the chain for the notes then
pick the materials for both now open
Shader editor you can edit the materials
like normal and they're going to affect
your geometry notes I'll give denotes a
black material and the line's a shiny
golden one and now let's tackle this big
old mess and make it more usable as far
as the graph goes I'll add boxes to
different sections and name them so it's
more clear what each part does
especially in the case if I ever want to
come back to this in the future the
spaghetti can be organized with reroutes
and if you're really fancy the whole
thing could be leveled with straight
lines insert OCD oh I get it as for the
exposed parameters you can also organize
them I'll click this icon up here and
add two panels which I'll rename to
lines and notes and then drag and drop
all the corresponding parameters into
them you can also rearrange them by
dragging them up and down and if you
want to change the display for these
types say you want the trims to be shown
as a percentage value make sure to do
this stuff now and all of these values
are designed to be single values that
means they don't really expect to be
driven by an attribute but rather just
this single value in a box so you can
select them on the list and take on
single value to make this useless box
disappear and of course do this on all
of them because we haven't designed this
in a way which would require that and
that is pretty much it we've made a
procedural sheet music generator which
conforms to the bezier curve can be
endlessly edited works with the Curve
tilt and has countless exposed
parameters for Endless customization
you've got the line spacing line
thickness the line resolution and of
course the curve resolution just make
sure you set the actual curve resolution
really high this will act like your
maximum resolution and the geometry note
setup will just overwrite that then of
course we got the trim start and end
which will nicely transition in and out
randomly generated musical notes which
you can further custom czee the start
and end offsets of the note transition
start and end width of the note
transition or both at ones and the
strength and offset of the flying out
bit all the while you have control of
the spacing of the notes the size of the
notes the height variation of the notes
as well as a random seed which spits out
a different assortment of notes every
single time I can't think of a single
thing we can still add to this and I
hope the explanation was understandable
because I know geometry notes can get a
little abstract sometimes they're not
entirely my strong suit either so if you
want to see more tutorials let me know
in the comments and I'll try my best to
make them I'll say this again don't
forget to subscribe so you don't miss a
video and join my Discord server to chat
with me in the community as well as vote
for my future tutorials that was a hard
one I am tired thanks again for watching
I'll see you next time and stay Sharp